So there was a lot of talking a lot of stuff being done.
Now it's really time to make this partner work and let us add a goal here.
Right.
And for that we need to find out what the user entered and thereafter of course listen to a tap on the
button and then add the entered goal to an array of goals which we have to manage somewhere which we
then can output down there in this bottom view.
Right.
That's what we need to do now in this course.
I will use functional components only with the react hooks feature which is relatively new.
So in case you don't know react hoax yet definitely learn about them first for example in my react Complete
Guide.
I have thoroughly covered them but attached you all to find some other resources that get you started
with reactor hooks because we'll need reactor hooks to for example get the user input.
We used to use state hook for Dad which we import from react not from React Native but from react to
core react feature.
And then here in this functional component in this app component we can get the entered goal and also
get the set entered goal function to update the state with the help of U.S. state and by default we
have an initial state which is an empty string because the user hasn't entered anything at the beginning.
Now we can bind this to the text input.
That means when the user types a character we want to update our state and safety entered text in the
state here which we can then access through entered goal and will pass to entered gold back into the
text input text as to where binding it's a so-called controlled component which you also know from react
for web with normal age table input elements.
So here we can listen to on change text a prop provided by text input which takes a function that will
execute for every keystroke.
Now we could provide a inline function here but we can also set up a separate function to have a bit
of a cleaner code and you can have a function in a function and we need to have it in here so we can
use our state or a set entered gold function here by simply adding a new function here.
Goal Input handler could be a name the name is up to you though in that function we'll get the entered
text automatically that will be passed in by react or by React Native here and we can then call set
entered goal and pass the entered text as a value because the enter text here will already be a string
because we connect goal Input handler to on changed text by simply pointing added here that's important
don't add parentheses down there because this would execute this function when this code gets parsed
so when the UI gets rendered for the first time you don't want to execute this immediately though you
want to executed on every keystroke in Dafur you just take the name of the function you pass that name
off the function to on change text and that effectively tells React Native hey that's the function I
should execute for every keystroke so don't add parentheses here so that this can run on every keystroke
now instead of this function syntax you by the way also can use a different syntax which is the one
I will use throughout the course where you create a constant with that name here and then the value
of that constant after equals sign is simply a function using that arrow function syntax so then this
here is your argument list and desist the function body that's normal javascript syntax it is supported
by the javascript code react native is able to run and therefore does this the syntax I will use you
connect it to on change text exactly in the same way as before OK so now we have dysfunction connected
we update our state with whatever the user entered on every keystroke.
Now we also have to pass that text back into the text input so that it's displayed there correctly by
simply binding the value property to entered code so to our estate which will change with every keystroke
and with Dad we're getting access to the user input because it will now always be stored in entered
goal now when the user presses the button we want to use that entered goal so for Dad I'll add another
function here add goal handler and that's just a naming convention I'm using for these functions here
you can name them whatever you want whatever you are used to from your react apps in the end the function
name should simply describe what's about to happen and dad here will handle a press on that button which
in the end will then add a goal here the function won't take any arguments but in the function body
I want to add my entered goal to a list of goals and we have no list yet.
So for now what I do here is console log which is supported and React Native entered goal so that we
at least see that this was saved correctly and that this function is executed for this to execute we
need to connect it to the button though there we can add the on press prop and point at the add goal
handler again without parentheses so that this doesn't execute immediately but only when a press happens.
And now let's save all of that and let's go back and let's maybe enter learn React Native and the good
thing is you can use your real keyboard here and press at and you should see here in your terminal this
log you'll also see this by the way in your expo def tools here in the browser tab there.
If you click on one of the connected devices the one where you just click the button in my case the
android device then there at the bottom you'll also see a learned React Native.
And of course it also works and I was learn all about React Native if we entered this year and click
Add then we all see Dad being logged here and also see that India Expo dev tools if you click on the
iPhone at the very bottom we see this log OK.
So we're getting the user input we're storing it we're console logging it of course we don't want a
console logging we want to output it below our input here instead we want of a list of our goals below
this input area so for that we need that second view here which should output our list of items.
So here between the opening and closing tags I want to output all the elements we added all the goals
we added For that we first of all need to manage our goals and we can set up a number of state for that
which initially is an empty array hence I pass an empty well array as a value to use state.
And there we have our course goals and a set course goals function.
Now these names are always up to you but they should describe what's in your state and how you can update
it.
So now you're when we add a goal I want to update my core skills to add the new goal for data can call
set course goals and now set course goals to a new array where I take my old course goals and add a
new one.
Now this is this index you might not know that's the so-called spread operator.
It's a javascript feature which takes an existing array and course gold is an array.
It's our current state snapshot before the update and pulls out all the elements from that array and
then adds them here to a new array which is why I have to surrounding square brackets without his surrounding
square brackets.
This would not work but now we create a new array and we add all the elements of the old array and now
we can also add a new element.
So here I add a comma to add an extra element.
After all the elements and pulling out here and the element I add here is my entered goal of course.
So now we update our list of goals with the old list of goals.
Initially an empty list but then this will grow over time because we then all to add a new goal.
When we press that button now a tiny side note when working with set course goals cause goals here is
our previous state and the way react updates to state.
This should always be your most current state snapshot but it's not 100 percent guaranteed to have that
100 percent guarantee when you update your state based on the old state.
You can use the function form of this set function where you don't pass the value of you of your new
state here.
But instead you pass it in a function typically an anonymous function where you get your current state
or current goals so your current state snapshot and then you return your updated values.
So here I return my updated array with that in line arrow function syntax where if you only have one
expression you can omit the curly braces and the return statement and just entered the value you want
to return and it will be returned.
That's all normal javascript here nothing react native specific.
So here ident take my current goals and then add my entered goal descent ex is a bit better the average
syntax would have worked as well but this is guaranteed to always work because we lack native will here
always go ahead and give you de guarantee the latest state snapshot before it then applies your state
change here.
Now that's all nice will now have a list an array of goals managed here how can we now output this though.